We've now got the ability to show a spinner to the user whenever they start trying to authenticate but
we still have to make sure that once the request is complete Be it in success or failure.
We clear out the spinner.
We can do this by adding some more cases onto our two authentication requests.
So both the signing with email and password and the create user with email and password as well.
We currently have a statement on both which handles the failed case but we can also add on a dot then
statement to each them as well.
So I can add on a dot then add any function that I passed to this data.
Then right here will be executed only if the user successfully signs in with the email and password.
So inside of a federal function or just some type of function that we passed to this then statement
we can add in our logic to say hey we need to clear out the spinner or whatever else we might need to
do.
I think that it's this block of code right here is starting to get kind of laborious to read.
You know there's really a lot of logic in here a lot of lines.
So I can make a separate helper method called on live in success to handle the case in which the user
successfully signs in.
So inside of on log in success there's going to be a couple of things that are going to want to do.
Number one we'll want to clear out any error messages that exist on the screen.
Number two I think that we'll want to reflect a loading of false here because hey we just successfully
logged in we're not loading anymore and then numbers three and four.
We probably also want to kind of clean out the form.
Right.
Like once you successfully log in we don't need to show you your e-mail and password in there anymore.
So I think they will want to reset our state there as well.
So inside of online in success whenever we successfully log in the user We're going to update our state
object
and we're going to basically touch every single state property that we have right now.
So I'm going to get myself a new line for a couple of different properties.
First I want to zero out the e-mail and the password.
So I'm going to reset that e-mail in the password to an empty string.
This is also part of the beauty in the approach we took for handling our inputs right here.
Remember by using state to track the value of the inputs if we want to change the value of the inputs
we can just call set state with a new string and poof the inputs values will be out instantly cleared
out for us.
Next we will also say that the thing is no longer loading anymore.
So no need to show the spinner.
We can hide the spinner to let the user know so request completes and then finally if there's any error
on the screen for any reason whatsoever we will zero it out by passing an error of empty string.
This error message right here is probably a little bit unnecessary just because we are already clearing
out the error message before we make the request and the only case in which a user could get another
error message on the screen is by failing to log in.
So you know perhaps it's a little bit overkill right here.
Nonetheless I think that if we ever start doing some client side validation of the email and password
then perhaps this would make a little bit more sense.
OK so this is our on logons success case.
So now we can say that whenever a user makes this request you know whenever they try to sign him with
their email and password if they succeed again any pass any function we pass to this dot.
Then kids right here will be automatically called.
So we will reference this dot on log in success.
And now it's time for everybody's favorite part because this is a function that we are passing off to
a promise that is going to be invoked sometime in the future.
We don't know the context that it will be called with.
We have to find the context to this like so do make sure that you are not.
You want to make sure you do not have a set of parentheses after you log in success.
We want to have just online log into Access and then bind this we want to make sure that we also handle
this on log and success case when a user successfully creates a user with email and password as well.
So in this case as well on this second request we will also change on a dot then with this dot on log
in success find this.
All right.
So I know this is a little bit of a confusing block of code.
We're going to do one last thing.
We're going to refactor out this catch case to a separate helper function as well which is just going
to make this thing a little bit more legible.
So I want to extract this fadder function right here to a helper method add on another method on loggin
fail and inside of year we will set the error message and we will also stop the spinner because hey
the request has failed.
I now need to allow the user to put in a new email and password and let them attempt to log in again
and if they're going to attempt to log in again we need to show them the button of course.
So we'll call this set state and I keep getting that gosh darn error message.
We'll give it an air of authentication failed.
And we'll set loading to false because hey we're not loading anymore.
And then inside of our fair firebase call on the catch that is lined up with the create user with email
and password.
I'm going to remove that federal function and instead call this dot on log in fail find this like so.
OK.
So let's do a quick review of where we're at.
When a user enters an email and password we will attempt to sign them in if they successfully sign in.
We will immediately call on log in success that will clear out the form.
It will hide the spinner and it will also clear any pending error messages.
If the user enters a correct e-mail like an e-mail that exists but a wrong password they will enter
this catch case.
So in this case we will attempt to create a brand new account so a brand new e-mail brand new password
if that succeeds then we'll consider the user to be logged in.
And we will have run on log and success but also that request fails you know if they enter a valid email
but an incorrect password then we will call on log and fail that will show the error message.
It will also hide the spinner.
So we got a couple of very distinct routes to change our state here.
Basically you are either in success case or the fail case.
One of the other I think the worded good point to do a test now so I'm going to flip open to my simulator
and I think we'll start by adding a valid email.
Test that test dot com.
But a bad password is put in one two three four five.
So now when I click log in I get the spinner and then the authentication fail message which is exactly
what I want.
But if I put in the correct password which for me is password I can sign in
and this is really taken a long time to do that.
That sign in and boom we're back to a zeroed out form so no error message.
And the e-mail and the password got cleared.
So this right here is a little bit startling to see.
Like you know OK I signed in.
Why did this form just clear itself out.
But really the idea here is that once we sign our user in we should no longer see the form at all.
Instead we should see like some other content like some content that a user would normally see when
they are signed into our application.
So we're in a good spot here.
I think that the form is behaving as we expect it to but we still have to figure out like OK once a
user is logged in.
What happens.
Like what's the point of signing into our app.
We need to show some other content on the screen.
So how do we figure out what end user signed in and how do we show some different content on screen.
So let's take care of those challenges in the next section.